reducing length of privacy considerations (#100)
SpencerDawkins/net-collab-rqmts: draft-kwbdgrr-tsvwg-net-collab-rqmts.md

## Privacy Considerations {#privacy}

Media flows are vulnerable to traffic analysis even without per-packet
metadata (see, e.g., {{traffic-analysis}}). The security aspects of the
media payload / transport are not in the scope of this document; these
are mentioned here only to provide context for metadata privacy.

Protocols such as TLS, SRTP, and QUIC offer some mitigations (like padding)
but are vulnerable to traffic analysis ({{traffic-analysis-2}}).
Metadata is vulnerable to modification in transit by
on-path attackers, who can corrupt checksums, drop packets, or mislabel

> important packets. Such changes are detectable by the receiver.

Reviewer: Modifying metadata in transit seems a security concern, not a privacy concern. Should this be moved to security considerations?  Also, CIDFI (as one per-packet metadata mechanism we could consider) prevents such modifications, so this blanket statement needs more nuance.

Per-packet metadata can aid in traffic analysis. Hence, it is recommended to
encrypt or obfuscate the metadata information so it is only available to the
server, client, and authorized network elements. However, encryption/obfuscation
of per-packet metadata is ineffective if the threat resides in the same network
entity with keys to decrypt the metadata. The method of encryption or
obfuscation is out of scope.

Analysis to ensure that metadata exposure does not compromise user privacy
or allow unauthorized entities to infer sensitive information, while
maintaining minimal resource consumption is crucial. There is a tension
between resource consumption of such encryption and the user's privacy

> ({{Section 7.4 of ?RFC6973}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
({{Section 7.4 of ?RFC6973}}).

To best preserve privacy, implementations might also consider less granular per-packet marking, for example marking all audio and video packets the same and only marking a background data transfer with different metadata.
```

## Privacy Considerations {#privacy}

> Media flows are vulnerable to traffic analysis without per packet

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Media flows are vulnerable to traffic analysis even without per-packet
```

> metadata ({{traffic-analysis}}). The security aspects of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
metadata (see, e.g., {{traffic-analysis}}). The security aspects of the
```

> media payload / transport are not in the scope of this document and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
media payload / transport are not in the scope of this document; these
```

> is mentioned here only to provide context for metadata privacy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
are mentioned here only to provide context for metadata privacy.
```

> Existing TLS, SRTP and QUIC protocols have some mititgations (like padding)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Protocols such as TLS, SRTP, and QUIC offer some mitigations (like padding)
```

> but are vulnerable to traffic analysis. ({{traffic-analysis-2}})

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
but are vulnerable to traffic analysis ({{traffic-analysis-2}}).
```

Metadata is vulnerable to modification in transit by
on-path attackers, who can corrupt checksums, drop packets, or mislabel
important packets. Such changes are detectable by the receiver.

Per-packet metadata can aid in traffic analysis. Hence, it is recommended to
encrypt or obfuscate the metadata information so it is only available to the
server, client, and authorized network elements. However, encryption/obfuscation
of per-packet metadata is ineffective if the threat resides in the same network
entity with keys to decrypt the metadata. The method of encryption or

> obfuscation is out of this document's scope.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
obfuscation is out of scope.
```
